### Who made a positive impact on my life recently?
A customer at work called Chrissy gave me a note saying that she notices when I put in effort at work and it has made me feel better about doing work.
### Sunday

Today I had the day off and I went to church. Last night I watched a movie with Dad and went to be late, about 00h00, I woke up at 08h15. Watched YT shorts until 08h40 then made coffee and got ready for church. I think I need to stop watching YT in the morning especially YT shorts. (Meta though) When writing the previous sentence I questioned whether to couch it in the "I think" rather than just stating what followed, in this case I think it is fine because I have writing what I feel rather than trying to convince anyone but it may be something to deal with later if it occurs too often in other settings.

My room is kinda a mess right now because I have put off folding my clothes and I have been taking longer to get ready for work in the morning so I don't do those things before work ATM. I need to make sure I get my clothes ready for work tomorrow.

It was nice to be able to go to Krema, I saw and chatted to the Madeley twins, Luke, Alex and Vera, I enjoyed catching up with them. I need to keep in touch with my friends more but I don't know what to talk to them about especially over text.

A couple weeks ago, Charlie asked if I wanted to come along to a "Bible study" (I guess) and this week one of the girls asked if I wanted to come, I might give it a try this week even if it is just to try something new.

I am starting to worry about the Vodafone apprenticeship, they still haven't emailed for an interview, they said that the interviews would happen in April.

I want to loose some weight, I am supposed to be following a cut at the moment but that hasn't been happening, I think I need to track my calories again.

I am still not sure whether or not I have ADHD, my problem is that I am not sure if I am looking for an excuse for being lazy or if I am "lazy" due to having ADHD. I am able to focus on things, such as today: during the service at church I read the "What every programmer should know about memory" for about 40 minutes without getting distracted even with the pastor speaking the whole time, I don't know if this is due to having the right amount of stimuli or maybe it was because I wasn't able to do the things that would usually distract me such as music or YT. I do need to figure out a way to reduce my usage of YT, I have already cleared out some of my subscriptions but I need to cut more out.

I am closing at work tomorrow, I may do some gym before leaving for work or I may go for a run. Hopefully I don't stress out about the close as much as I did last night, I think it leads to a worse nights rest.

I am using this journal as more of a brain dump than a structured technique. I will probably follow what I did today and start with a description of what I did that day (probably incomplete :]) and then follow up with whatever comes to mind as I am writing things.