### When was the last time I felt exceptionally strong or brave?
It has been a while. I’m not sure when it was, but I think a time I felt strong was thinking back on what I have done in the last year and a bit. Having studied and written my A-Levels, got accepted into Uni (even though it fell through), getting a job. It makes me feel good for being able to do these things and gives me hope for the future to be able to do more things even the things that I don’t feel are possible right now sure as getting a Software job.
### Monday
I’m closing at work today so I have some time this morning to do things I cleaned my room a bit, cooked some chicken for my lunches, then got ready for work.
Everyone is out this morning, when I am alone I feel like I recharge a lot more, I think it might be that there are no one else’s expectations on me on what I am supposed to be doing which weirdly sometime makes me do more of the things that they would want me to do as well as just doing more with my time. Most of the time this does not happen usually I’ll do the same as I usually do which is watch YT and listen to music.
I did get to sleep in a bit today, I do feel more refreshed.
I am not going to be able to go to the gym this evening because I am working tomorrow so I can’t be getting home at 20h00 after closing and gym, I will go tomorrow, I am going to be doing legs.
I feel a bit jealous of Luke starting to get bigger from going to the gym, not because to he getting bigger but because he has always been lean and now he is gaining muscle while still being lean and he has started getting veins on his bicep and forearms, this makes me feel worse about myself, I really don’t like that this is my response, that is not to say that I am not proud of him making changes and bettering himself. I am trying to direct my feelings into doing something about it and hopefully I can use it as motivation to stick to a cut and get lean myself. Most of my problems with sticking to a cut is just having snacks in the house that are easy to reach at any time. I am not sure how to avoid this as Mom is getting back soon and she is usually the one that gets the snacks. I guess it could just be a lack of discipline, but we will have to see.
I need to get ready for work, hopefully today isn’t too busy. I’ll write more tonight.
night.
#### 21h36:
I finished work at 19h15 and got home at 20h00, I watched the last bit of a movie Tom and Dad had started watching, then I chatted to Dad about his day. I showered and then tracked the calories from supper and now I am getting ready for bed.
I think that closing today is going to stress me out and may mess with my sleep. I am worried each time that I close that I have messed something up or didn’t do something or didn’t do something well enough. My mind races through each of that things I did and tries to find something that I didn’t do, while this is happening I feel nervous and stressed. I know I shouldn’t worry because I can’t change anything now, I don’t know what I hope to achieve by worrying about this, maybe if I think about it I can warn the opener about it or apologize before they bring it up. Maybe it is a good thing that I worry, maybe is shows that even in this job that I don’t like I still want to be better. Maybe it is just that I am too much of a people-pleaser and I just don’t want to upset anyone at work.
I think that for me to loose weight there isn’t much I need to do on the days that I work besides maybe limiting the snacks that I have before bed, I think that the bigger problem is that days that I have off, because I am far less active and I am more likely to eat more because I can get bored easier and this can lead to more snacking on my days off. This is a problem because I have burning less calories as well as eating more leading to higher calorie intake which makes it possible to set me back the rest of the weight I loose from the days that I am working. I need to figure out a way to prevent this from happening too often. Maybe I can try being more active on my days off such as going for a run. The other option is to limit the amount of snacks that I have access to, maybe trying to keep that snack cupboard close to empty most of the time rather than having a large variety of snacks, or having more health options for snacks such as high protein snacks or just low calorie high fiber snacks to make me feel more full while still being able to eat it.