# After The Gold Rush
During the financial crisis during the start of WW1, which was caused by countries withdrawing gold from the bank of England as well as domestic banks doing the same, Keynes’ idea went contrary too the consensus of the other bankers at the time. His idea was that the power of the Bank of England was that is was reliable so if it was to break the perception that is was reliable it would ruin all of it’s power. The other bankers wanted to halt the freeze the withdrawals by other countries.
Domestic banks had withdrawn more gold from the Bank of England that France had
Keynes proposed that the Bank of England should allow the withdrawal by other countries as to maintain perception of reliability while providing domestic banks with a new currency that was not exchangeable for gold on demand.
The Treasury printed the new currency, Parliament approved legislation legalizing new paper money. The public accepted the new currency and some started to deposit at their local banks again. As a result Great Britain was the only major country to maintain its foreign gold commitments in full. (All of this happened within the 3 day bank holiday that was declared to handle the crisis)
Keynes discovered that “fluctuations of the market did not express the accumulated wisdom of ration actors pursuing their own self-interest but judgments of flawed men attempting to navigate uncertain future. Market stability depended not so much on supply and demand finding an equilibrium as it did on political power maintaining order, legitimacy and confidence.”
