### Capitalism
* I think that capitalism is inherently greedy, Everyone is trying to get as much out of the system as possible, this includes both businesses and employees(businesses: pay as little for as much work as possible, Employees: Work as little for as much pay as possible). This is likely to lead to inequality as people with money are more easily able to make more of it. I think this is where the government has to step in and regulate certain things.
* Something to watch out for is that there is a gap between the growth of a system and the growth in working peoples lived experience, I think that there is a lag effect on working people when compared to the growth in a system, this is probably unavoidable but it is important to ensure that this gap does not grow too rapidly, if the system grows but the working person’s experience stays the same that can cause issues with products increasing in price but the average person not being able to continue to afford said item when they could before.
* I don’t know what indicators are the best to watch to gauge the average person’s experience, most economists use growth, inflation and employment rate to value the economy but this can be misleading as those indicators can all be good but the lived experience can worsen(e.g. Businesses grow which increases GDP and decreases unemployment rate, but if the employees are not payed a livable wage then the live experience can be worse even with indicators being good.)
* I don’t fully know what government should regulate.
* Government should:
	* Set a minimum wage to reduce chance of businesses exploiting their employees at extremely low wages.
	* Set certain workers rights, e.g. Limiting hours that an worker is required to work.
	* Ensure that successful companies pay back into the system that enabled their success(I think this should include the owners because otherwise there can be exploitation of whichever system get implemented, if owners get taxed then they reinvest money back into business to increase wealth and if business is taxed then they pay owner more so they don’t run at a profit), I don’t know the ideal way to implement this, all people receiving income should pay tax, but (as currently happening, IMO) the wealthy can increase their wealth without paying tax due to investing and not having to pay tax until the investment is realised, I think this is a good incentive to reinvest the money that someone earns but only if that money is doing actual work in the system, if an investment does not create an output of creating jobs or stimulating growth in the system and taxing it instead can be used to achieve those goals it should be.


### Democracy
#### Towards Authoritarianism, Populism and Anti-Establishment
* There have been some worrying trends, in recent years, away from democracy, this may be a big problem or it may just be the time we live in being exceptional and things may go back to normal once things settle.
* The big obvious one is Donald Trump in America. Someone that has claimed rigged elections for every election he has been apart of even the ones he won. Someone that denied(and still denies) that he had lost an election to the point of sending a mob of protesters to the capital while using inflammatory rhetoric, such as "If you don't fight like hell, you won't have a county anymore", "We will stop the steal", which led to the protesters breaking into the capitol which led to a delay in the certification of the votes. Someone that has been convicted of 32 counts of falsifying business records and in the process becoming a felon, in some parts of the country he would not be allowed to vote(If he had been sentenced to prison he would not have been able to vote in his home state of Florida) yet is able to become president. Has claimed that he would suspend the constitution in order to search for voter fraud. And yet after all this he won the election in 2024 and upon taking office immediately started enacting illegal executive orders as well as pardoning all the Jan 6 rioters even the ones that were violent(video evidence). Although Trump runs on a populist and anti-establishment platform he has had a huge amount of very wealthy and powerful people support him and even become part of the cabinet and some gaining great power in government such as in the case of Elon Musk, covered next.
* In the USA there is a worrying level of involvement of billionaires in the government
* Germany has seen a large movement to the right-wing party, AfD, 
* In the United Kingdom the right-wing party, Reform(formerly the Brexit Party) has seem a large increase in support
#### Talk A Big Game
* There is an uncomfortable reality that it no longer matters what you are actually doing now the only thing that matters is that you say you are going to do something even if what you are claiming to want to do does not make sense when actually examined or worse not having a plan at all. While the people that actually have plans and are actively implementing said plans that may or may not be having positive effects, these go unnoticed unless they are to start bragging about every little thing they do. An example will be Trump telling you he did something that he sometimes has done the complete opposite of i.e. His position on The Affordable Care act: he claimed that he made it better while what he actually did was to try get it removed completely. Another example is Reform UK bashing Labour Partyrty for it’s response to immigration, while [Labour have deported almost 13,460 people since July 2024](https://news.sky.com/story/more-migrants-removed-from-uk-since-labour-elected-than-in-any-six-months-since-2019-home-office-says-13273888) 
* 