Now days it seems that you are expected to have an opinion on everything happening all the time. The other day I saw someone post that they had told a friend that there are currently genocides happening in Africa and that the friend was surprised to hear that. I think it is fine to tell people about things that are happening but expecting them to care as much as you do is unfair on them, there may be a few exceptions but I don't think there are currently any events that should have everyone caring about it.
I think it is fine to ask your politicians to care but everyone else should not be expected to care or have an opinion unless it is their specialty, even politics streamers should not have to stake a position on every event happening, e.g. a Canadian politics streamer/youtuber should not have to have a position on Israel/Palestine.
Expecting people to have opinions on everything can be overwhelming and it can also cause issues if the person is uninformed on the event they can either spread a view that may be dangerous or incorrect that they may need to walk back after learning more about the subject.
I think that we should normalize saying "I don't know" or even "I don't care" as harsh as that may sound, having opinions on events that don't affect you is an inherently privileged position and so it is unfair to expect others in different worries and difficulties to care about your particular thing you care about.
I don't think we extend this to any other part of life, we don't expect others to care about our hobbies or other things that don't affect them personally.
I think a much better way of doing things is to have people care and inform people about the things they care about and let others do the same for other things.
We also need to stop alienating people based on what things they care about.