
3 8-bit general purpose registers: A, X & Y
8-bit stack pointer.
16-bit program counter
148 total instructions
Little Endian architecture

Addressing Modes:
* Non-Indexed:
	* Accumulator - uses register A as the target.
	* Immediate - Data defined by next byte after the opcode.
	* Implied - Data or destination is mandatory for instruction.
	* Opcodes:
		* Relative - Only used for branch operations, byte after opcode is branch offset. If branch is taken, new address will be the current PC + offset. Offset is a signed byte, max jump of 127 forward or 128 backward.
		* Absolute - Specifies the memory location explicitly in two bytes after the opcode. Because little Endian any 16 bit value is stored with LSB first. All instructions that use absolute addressing are 3 bytes.
		* Zero-Page - Addressing mode that is only capable of addressing the first 25 bytes of CPU's memory map. Absolute addressing for first 256 bytes. Adv. instruction takes one less byte to specify and executes in less CPU cycles. Frequently used variable are stored in first 256 bytes to take advantage of zero-page addressing.
		* Indirect - Only for JMP instruction, 3 byte instruction, 2nd and 3rd are an absolute address. Set the PC to the address stored at that address.
* Indexed
	* Absolute - Target address is gotten from adding contents of X or Y register to and absolute address.
	* Zero-Page - Works like absolute indexed, but target address is limited to first 0xFF bytes. Target will wrap around and always be in the zero page.
	* Indexed indirect - Only used with the X register. If X + immediate byte will wrap around to a zero-page address. Instructions are 2 bytes, second byte is the zero-page address, fetched address has to be stored in the zero page.
	* Indirect indexed - Mode is only used for the Y register, differs in the order that Y is applied to the indirectly fetched address. To calculate target address, CPU will fetch address stored at zero page, address will be added to register Y to get final address. Instruction are 2 bytes, second byte is the zero page address. While index indirect addressing will only generate a zero-page address, the mode target address is not wrapped, anywhere in 16-bit address space.